# Binalyze Offline Unzip Utility
This tool can be used to extract encrypted ZIPs generated by Binalyze Offline Collectors without the need of uploading data to the Binalyze server.
The end result allowed you to extract your data entirely without internet access, or connectivity to any Binalyze server - a requirement for most offline analysis labs. 

The ZIPs require that the Binalize License Key be provided as this is a unique string used when the collectors encrypt the ZIPs.

## Flags
```
  -input string
    	Path to folder containing zips. Defaults to scanning the same directory the program is running from (default "./")
  -key string
    	The license key for the Binalyze instance which generated the Offline-Collector.
    	Alternatively, you can create a file named "key" in the same folder as this program containing this information.
  -output string
    	Folder name or full path to write results to. Defaults to "output" in current directory (default "output")
  -passlist
    	If specified, the program will only print out the passwords for the zips. Useful if you need to extract the zips through other means
```

## Instructions

Below are common scenarios and instructions for leveraging the program
###  Providing the License Key
In order to generate the password for each zip, the below commands require that the Binalyze License Key be provided.
There are multiple methods of passing through the license key depending on your situation.

> Any of the following options will work

- Launch the program without any arguments (ie. "Double Click") and be prompted to manually enter the key.
- You can pass through `-key <BinalyzeLicense>` when launching the program to avoid the need to manually enter the license key.
  - Example: `BinUnzip-windows-amd64.exe -key TEST-LICENSE`
- Create a file named `key` in the same directory as the program. Write the Binalyze License Key to this file, the program will automatically run using this instead

### Functions
#### List ZIP Passwords
> The following will generate the password each Binalyze Offline Collector ZIP is encrypted with, without the need to upload or communicate to any server. 

- Execute the relevant binary for your operating system in the same folder as the encrypted ZIPs (or specify the ZIP folder using the `-input <PATH>` flag) with the `-passlist` flag.
  - Example: `BinUnzip-windows-amd64.exe -key TEST-LICENSE -passlist`

#### Extract ZIPs
> The following will allow you to quickly extract all ZIPs generated by Binalyze Offline Collector in a directory. 


- Execute the program  in the same folder as the ZIPs (or specify the ZIP folder using the `-input <PATH>` flag) while passing through the license key using any method described above.
  - Example: `BinUnzip-windows-amd64.exe -key TEST-LICENSE`
- Extracted results will be written to the folder `output` in the same directory as the program (by default - can be configured with the `-output <PATH>` flag.

